# Sample DMP

By: Felipe Bulsoni

Created on 09/27/2016 using the [DMPTool](https://dmp.cdlib.org/) Template: DMP Template from DCC

You can find the full-text at [https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/23321.pdf](https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/23321.pdf) 

## Data Types, Formats, Standards and Capture Methods

> Example funder prompts: 
What data outputs will your research generate? Outline volume, type, content, quality and format of the final dataset

Outline the metadata, documentation or other supporting material that should accompany the data for it to be interpreted correctly.

What standards and methodologies will be utilised for data collection and management?

State the relationship to other data available in public repositories e.g. existing data sources that will be used by the research project; gaps between available data and that required for the research; the added value that new data would provide in relation to existing data.

The data generated will contain the planned model for Data Stream Processing, data provenient from benchmarks ran against the solution and comparison with other Data Stream Processing solutions on the market. The benchmarking tools which will be used are to be defined, as well as the comparisson methods.

## Ethics and Intellectual Property

> Example funder prompts:

Demonstrate that you have sought advice on and addressed all copyright and rights management issues that apply to the resource.

Make explicit mention of consent, confidentiality, anonymisation and other ethical considerations, where appropriate.

Are any restrictions on data sharing required – for example to safeguard research participants or to gain appropriate intellectual property protection?

All data generated will be regarding the developed Method/Solution and will be IP of the creators and the University of S&atilde;o Paulo. The material will be open for consultation and analysis, but should be correctly cited if used and avoid duplication.

## Access, Data Sharing and Reuse

> Example funder prompts:

What are the further intended and/or foreseeable research uses for the completed dataset(s)?

How you will make the resource accessible to the potential audience(s) identified? Where will you make the data available? How will other researchers be able to access the data? Will a data sharing agreement be required? What is the timescale for public release of the data?

State any expected difficulties in data sharing, along with causes and possible measures to overcome these difficulties.

How will data sharing provide opportunities for coordination or collaboration?

The uses for the data generated by this research are mostly for comparison against other Data Stream Processing solutions and similar. It is not yet decided where it will be made available, but this DMP should be updated once that decision is made.

## Short-Term Storage and Data Management

> Example funder prompts: 

Describe the planned quality assurance and back-up procedures [security/storage].

Specify the responsibilities for data management and curation within research teams at all participating institutions.

The data will be generated locally and mostly/all by the researcher in charge of this research. So it should not have needs for being updated across networks and the such. Once the data is properly analyzed and articles are written with it, it should be made available to the public.

## Deposit and Long-Term Preservation

> Example funder prompts:

Identify which of the data sets produced are considered to be of long-term value.

Outline the plans for preparing and documenting data for preservation and sharing.

Explain your archiving/preservation plan to ensure the long-term value of key datasets.

For now there are no plans for the long term preservation of this research data. This should change as we go further into preservation on the Data Science subject.

## Resourcing

> Example prompts:

What resources will you require to deliver your plan?

Outline additional hardware, software and technical expertise, support and training that is likely to be required and how it will be acquired.

It is possible that for this data to be stored, an external storage will be required. As of this moment, since there is still no plan for the data that will be generated in this research, the cost can't be estimated.

Processed 2016-09-29 17:36:08.386570
