# PCS5031_USP2016_Adult-UCI

By: Emerson Cruz

Created on 09/28/2016 using the [DMPTool](https://dmp.cdlib.org/) Template: NSF-CISE: Computer and Information Science and Engineering

You can find the full-text at [https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/23397.pdf](https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/23397.pdf) 

## Roles and responsibilities

> The Data Management Plan should clearly articulate how the PI and co-PIs plan to manage and disseminate data generated by the project. The plan should outline the rights and obligations of all parties as to their roles and responsibilities in the management and retention of research data, and consider changes that would occur should a PI or co-PI leave the institution or project. Any costs should be explained in the Budget Justification pages.

All data will be used aiming scientific purposes only.The research is part of the assignments related to the courseIntroduction in Data Science (PCS5031 - USP-S&atilde;o Paulo/2016)Basically is part of training in how store an create a planning using the DMPtool.All data generated will be regarding the developed Method/Solution and will be IP of the creators and the University of S&atilde;o Paulo. The material will be open for consultation and analysis, but should be correctly cited if used and avoid duplication.

## Types of data

> The Data Management Plan should describe the types of data, samples, physical collections, software, curriculum materials, or other materials to be produced in the course of the project. It should then describe the expected types of data to be retained and shared, and the plans for doing so. The DMP should cover how data are to be managed and maintained during the project.

The data used in this project is a sample from a census data(1994) from the US census database.The data generated will contain census prediction models income for the selected sample. When inserted new data on a specific person, the model will indicate whether the person will achieve a desired income census.

## Policies for access and sharing and appropriate protection and privacy

> The Data Management Plan should describe the period of time the data will be retained and shared; factors that limit the ability to manage and share data, e.g., legal and ethical restrictions on access to human subjects data; and provisions for appropriate protection of privacy, confidentiality, security, and intellectual property.

At the moment, restrictions are not applied in sharing. As soon the data has been generated the will become full available. Once the data will be used for pedagogical reasons only, the data will be available during the course period (PCS5031), which is form September/2016 to December/2016

## Data storage and preservation of access

> The Data Management Plan should describe the mechanisms and formats for storing data and making them accessible to others, which may include third party facilities and repositories; and other types of information that would be maintained and shared regarding data, e.g. the means by which it was generated, detailed analytical and procedural information required to reproduce experimental results, and other metadata.

The data will be generated locally and mostly/all by the researcher in charge of this research. So it should not have needs for being updated across networks and the such. Once the data is properly analyzed and articles are written with it, it should be made available to the public.

## Additional possible data management requirements

> Note that individual solicitations may have additional data management plan requirements. If guidance specific to the program is not available, then the requirements established in the Grant Proposal Guide apply.

No additional requirements regarding to this project are requerid

Processed 2016-09-29 17:36:12.188764
