# Data Management Plan_Cong Liu

By: Cong Liu

Created on 04/13/2016 using the [DMPTool](https://dmp.cdlib.org/) Template: USDA - NIFA: National Institute of Food and Agriculture

You can find the full-text at [https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/20810.pdf](https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/20810.pdf) 

## Expected Data Type

> Describe the type of data (e.g. digital, non-digital) and how they will be generated (lab work, field work, surveys, etc.). Are these primary or metadata?

Data type: spreadsheetsThe data will be generated both from field work and models.

## Data Format

> For scientific data to be readily accessible and usable it is critical to use an appropriate community-recognized standard and machine readable formats when they exist. The data should preferentially be stored in recognized public databases appropriate for the type of research conducted. Regardless of the format used (notebook, samples, images, spreadsheet, etc.), that data set should contain enough information to allow independent investigators to understand, validate, and use the data.

I will use excel for my data because it is easily for people to see and understand. If the data is readable and interpretable, the description of each data will be needed and the unit will also be needed. People who would like to estimate the effect of riparian buffer zones will need the data.

## Data Storage and Preservation

> Scientific data should be stored in a safe environment with adequate measures taken for its long-term preservation. Applicants should describe plans for storing and preserving their data during and after the project and specify the data repositories, if they exist. They should outline strategies, tools, and contingency plans that will be used to avoid data loss, degradation, or damage.

The data will be stored in the lab's computer. Copies of the paper data will be stored both in researchers' home and university. Also, copies of data will be stored in hard dirves and hard drives will be stored in researchers' home. If there is a crash on lab's computer, data will also exist in hard drives.

## Data Sharing and Public Access

> Describe your data access and sharing procedures during and after the grant. Provide any restrictions such as copyright, confidentiality, patent, appropriate credit, disclaimers, or conditions for use of the data by other parties.

Data will not be shared with people in private. People who want to get the data must first inform the project leader who own this data. When the project leader agree, other procedures must be done. Both the person who wants the data and the project leader have to sign the contract and make sure the data will not be provided to the third party.

## Roles and Responsibilities

> Who will ensure DMP implementation? This is particularly important for multi-investigator and multi- institutional projects. Provide a contingency plan in case key personnel leave the project. Also, what resources will be needed for the DMP? If funds are needed, have they been added to the budget request and budget narrative? Projects must budget sufficient resources to develop and implement the proposed DMP.

Each project will have a second key person who will be responsible for a contigency if there is any. If there is no any contigency, both the first key person and the second key person will ensure DMP implementation together.The funds for the DMP has already been added to the budget.

## Monitoring and Reporting

> Successful projects should monitor the implementation of the DMP throughout the life of the project and after, as appropriate. Implementation of the DMP should be a component of annual and final reports to NIFA (REEport) and include progress in data sharing (publications, database, software, etc.). The final report should also describe the data that was produced during the award period and the components that will be stored and preserved (including the expected duration) after the award ends.

The project and DMP will be monitored as specified by NIFA.

Processed 2016-09-29 17:36:01.715690
