# Climate changes in the Pyrenees and its changes's effect in the landscape

By: rovira fernandez
Created on 05/17/2015 using the [DMPTool](https://dmp.cdlib.org/) Template: NSF-AGS: Atmospheric and Geospace Sciences

You can find the full-text at [https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/15212.pdf](https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/15212.pdf) 

## Products of research

> Describe the types of data and products that will be generated in the research, such as physical samples, space and/or time-dependent information on chemical and physical processes, images, spectra, final or intermediate numerical results, theoretical formalisms, computational strategies, software, and curriculum materials.

Air samples at Pyrenees will be collected continuously from air every day, during 5 years

Photographs taken in specific places taken every season during 5 years

Temperatures collecte every day (maximum and minimum) during 5 years










## Data format

> Describe the format in which the data or products are stored (e.g. hardcopy logs and/or instrument outputs, ASCII, XML files, HDF5, CDF, etc). What metadata will be part of the data sets produced?

The data generated will be placed in comma-separated-values in plain ASCII

format, which are readable over long time periods.

The final data file will containdates for each observation

The final data product distributed to most users will occupy less than 500 KB; raw data, which will be distributed on request, will occupy less than 10 MB.

Metadata will be comprised of two formats&mdash;contextual information about the data

in a text based document and ISO 19115 standard metadata in an xml file. These

two formats for metadata were chosen to provide a full explanation of the data (text

format) and to ensure compatibility with international standards (xml format). The

standard XML file will be more complete; the document file will be a umanreadable

summary of the XML file.




## Access to data, and data sharing practices and policies

> Describe your plans for providing access to data, including websites maintained by your research group and contributions to public databases. If maintenance of a web site or database is the direct responsibility of your group, provide information about the period of time the web site or database is expected to be maintained. Also describe your practice or policies regarding the release of data&#8212;for example whether data are available before or after formal publication and the approximate duration of time that the data will be kept private. Describe your policies (where applicable) for protection of propriety data, privacy and confidentiality, intellectual property, or other rights or requirements.

The data product will be updated monthly.

The date of the update will be included in the data file and will be part of the data file name. 

Versions of the data product will be revised. A revision history document will describe the revisions made.

Data will be placed in Zenodo repository








## Policies and provisions for re-use, re-distribution and production of derivatives

> Describe your policies regarding the use of data provided via general access or sharing. If you plan to provide data on a website, will the site contain disclaimers, or conditions regarding the use of the data in other publications or products? If the data or products are copyrighted, how will this be noted on the website?

The final data product will be release to the public as soon as we will obtain the data.

There is no period of exclusive use by the datacollectors. Users can access documentation in Zenodo. 

The data will beavailable via ftp download.






## Archiving of data

> Describe whether and how data will be archived and how preservation of access will be handled. For example, will hardcopy logs, instrument outputs, and physical samples be stored in a location where there are safeguards against fire or water damage? Is there a plan to transfer digitized information to new storage media or devices as technological standards or practices change? Will there be an easily accessible index that documents where all archived data are stored and how they can be accessed? If the data will be archived by a third party, please refer to their preservation plans (if available).

Our intent is that the long-term high quality final data product generated by this

project will be available for use by the research and policy communities in

perpetuity.

The standardized metadata recordwill be added to the metadata record database at Zenodo so that interested users can discover them. 






Processed 2016-09-28 16:57:14.178588
