# ORIENTATIONAL ORDER INDUCED BY A POLYMER NETWORK IN THE ISOTROPIC PHASE OF LIQUID CRYSTAL

By: Vassili Sergan
Created on 10/16/2014 using the [DMPTool](https://dmp.cdlib.org/) Template: NSF-DMR: Materials Research

You can find the full-text at [https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/12137.pdf](https://dmptool.org/api/v1/plans_full/12137.pdf) 

## Types of data produced

> Types of data, samples, physical collections, software, curriculum materials, and other materials to be produced in the course of the project.

Measurements of LC cells parameters, such as retardation vs voltage, retardation vs voltage, retardation vs time (testing feasibility of practical use) etc will be collected in the course of project completion. Single measurements data file is usually less than 1MB in size and is in plain ASCII format. Intermediate data processing will be done either using Excel or Mathematica software packages. Resulting files are usually around 1MB in size.


## Data and metadata standards

> Standards to be used for data and metadata format and content (where existing standards are absent or deemed inadequate, this should be documented along with any proposed solutions or remedies).

The raw data product will be shared with researchers around the globe at their request and at no cost. The final data product (in the form of graphs, charts, diagrams etc) will be published in scientific journals, making them freely acceptable.


## Policies for access and sharing, and provisions for appropriate protection/privacy

> Policies for access and sharing; Provisions for appropriate protection of privacy, confidentiality, security, intellectual property, or other rights or requirements.

Our intent is that the long-term high quality final data product generated by this project will be available for use by the research communities in perpetuity. The raw supporting data will be available in perpetuity as well, for useby researchers. There is no embargo period. Data leading to creation of intelectual property will not be released untill they will be patented.


## Policies and provisions for re-use, re-distribution

> Policies and provisions for re-use, re-distribution, and the production of derivatives.

Once our data is published, reuse will be free to anyone interested.


## Plans for archiving and preservation

> Plans for archiving data, samples, and other research products, and for preservation of access to them.

Daily and monthly backups of the data files will be retained at the Liquid Crystal Lab at California State University, Sacramento. One backup copy will be stored off-site usin one of the cloud servers.


Processed 2016-09-28 16:57:05.807089
