NSF-EHR: Education and Human Resources
======================================

National Science Foundation
===========================

Data generated by the project
-----------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe the types of data, samples, physical collections, software, curriculum materials, or other materials generated by your project. Any data collection required by the program announcement should be incorporated into the proposal’s Data Management Plan. For example, the management of assessment, evaluation, or monitoring data required for all projects within a given program should be addressed in the data management plan. Describe your plan for managing the data.

Describe the data you plan to generate, including amount and type. Data types could include spreadsheets, interview transcripts, text files, historical documents, diaries, field notes, geospatial data, citations, software code, algorithms, etc. Identify your methods for collecting data. Consider the following:

-   What data will be generated in the research?

-   What data types will you be creating or capturing?

-   How will you capture or create the data?

-   If you will be using existing data, how will you acquire it?

-   What is the relationship between the data you are collecting and the existing data?

Period of data retention
------------------------

### EHR is committed to timely and rapid data distribution. However, it recognizes that types of data can vary widely and that acceptable norms also vary by scientific discipline. It is strongly committed, however, to the underlying principle of timely access, and applicants should address how this will be met in their Data Management Plan.

Describe how long you plan to retain the data produced or used in your research. If you plan to embargo the data for a period of time after the research is completed, describe why this is necessary. Consider the following:

-   How long will the original data collector/creator/principal investigator retain the right to use the data before opening it up to wider use?

-   Explain details of any embargo periods for political/commercial/patent or publisher reasons.

Data format and dissemination
-----------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe data formats, media, and dissemination approaches that will be used to make data and metadata available to others. Policies for public access and sharing should be described, including provisions for appropriate protection of privacy, confidentiality, security, intellectual property, or other rights or requirements. Research centers and major partnerships with industry or other user communities must also address how data are to be shared and managed with partners, center members, and other major stakeholders. Data on EHR projects involving human subjects should be made available to the public subject to constraints imposed by IRB decisions. Other data, such as software, publications, and curricula, should be made available subject to intellectual property rights.

Describe the format of your data. Ideally, data formats will be chosen that are openly and freely available, and/or non-proprietary in nature. Consider the following:

-   Which file formats will you use for your data, and why?

-   What transformations (to more shareable formats) will be necessary to prepare data for preservation and data sharing?

-   What form will the metadata take?

-   How will you create or capture these details?

-   Which metadata standards will you use and why have you chosen them? (e.g. accepted domain-local standards, widespread usage).

-   What contextual details (metadata) are needed to make the data you capture or collect meaningful?

Describe how you will ensure dissemination of your data. Consider the following:

-   How and when will you make the data available? (Include the resources needed to make the data available: equipment, systems, expertise, etc.)

-   What other types of information should be shared regarding the data, e.g. the way it was generated, analytical and procedural, information?

-   What is the process for gaining access to the data?

-   Will any permission restrictions need to be placed on the data?

-   How will you manage data with sensitive information?

-   Are there ethical and privacy issues? If so, how will these be resolved?

-   What have you done to comply with your obligations in your IRB Protocol?

Data storage and preservation of access
---------------------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe physical and cyber resources and facilities that will be used for the effective preservation and storage of research data. These can include third party facilities and repositories.

Describe your long-term strategy for storing, archiving, and preserving the data you will generate or use. In addition, explain how the responsibilities regarding the management of your data will be delegated. This should include time allocations, project management of technical aspects, training requirements, and contributions of non-project staff - individuals should be named where possible. Remember that those responsible for long-term decisions about your data will likely be the custodians of the repository you choose to store your data. Consider the following:

What is the long-term strategy for maintaining, curating, and archiving the data?

Which archive/repository/database have you identified as a place to deposit data?

What procedures does your intended long-term data storage facility have in place for preservation and backup?

How long will/should data be kept beyond the life of the project?

What data will be preserved for the long-term?

On what basis will data be selected for long-term preservation?

What metadata/documentation will be submitted alongside the data or created on deposit/transformation in order to make the data reusable?

Outline the staff/organizational roles and responsibilities for implementing this data management plan.

How will adherence to this data management plan be checked or demonstrated?

Additional possible data management requirements
------------------------------------------------

### More stringent data management requirements may be specified in particular NSF solicitations or result from local policies and best practices at the PI’s home institution. Additional requirements will be specified in the program solicitation and award conditions. Principal Investigators to be supported by such programs must discuss how they will meet these additional requirements in their Data Management Plans.

Describe here any additional program-specific data management requirements. If none exist you may leave this section blank.

Please note the [**Rigor and Reproducibility**] requirements that involve updates to grant application instructions and review criteria (but not Data Sharing Plans).

  [**Rigor and Reproducibility**]: http://grants.nih.gov/reproducibility/index.htm
