NSF-CISE: Computer and Information Science and Engineering
==========================================================

National Science Foundation
===========================

Roles and responsibilities
--------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should clearly articulate how the PI and co-PIs plan to manage and disseminate data generated by the project. The plan should outline the rights and obligations of all parties as to their roles and responsibilities in the management and retention of research data, and consider changes that would occur should a PI or co-PI leave the institution or project. Any costs should be explained in the Budget Justification pages.

Explain how the responsibilities regarding the management of your data will be delegated. This should include time allocations, project management of technical aspects, training requirements, and contributions of non-project staff - individuals should be named where possible. Remember that those responsible for long-term decisions about your data will likely be the custodians of the repository/archive you choose to store your data. While the costs associated with your research (and the results of your research) must be specified in the Budget Justification portion of the proposal, you may want to reiterate who will be responsible for funding the management of your data. Consider the following:

-   Outline the staff/organizational roles and responsibilities for implementing this data management plan.

-   Who will be responsible for data management and for monitoring the data management plan?

-   How will adherence to this data management plan be checked or demonstrated?

-   What process is in place for transferring responsibility for the data?

-   Who will have responsibility over time for decisions about the data once the original personnel are no longer available?

Types of data
-------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe the types of data, samples, physical collections, software, curriculum materials, or other materials to be produced in the course of the project. It should then describe the expected types of data to be retained and shared, and the plans for doing so. The DMP should cover how data are to be managed and maintained during the project.

Provide a description of the data you will collect or re-use, including the file types, dataset size, number of expected files or sets, and content. Data types could include text, spreadsheets, images, 3D models, software, audio files, video files, reports, surveys, patient records, etc. **Data that underlie the findings reported in a journal article or conference paper should be deposited in accordance with the policies of the publication and according to the procedures laid out in the DMP included in the proposal that led to the award on which the research is based.** Consider the following:

-   What data will be generated in the research?

-   What data types will you be creating or capturing?

-   How will you capture or create the data?

-   If you will be using existing data, state this and include how you will obtain it.

-   What is the relationship between the data you are collecting and any existing data?

-   How will the data be processed?

-   What quality assurance & quality control measures will you employ?

Policies for access and sharing and appropriate protection and privacy
----------------------------------------------------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe the period of time the data will be retained and shared; factors that limit the ability to manage and share data, e.g., legal and ethical restrictions on access to human subjects data; and provisions for appropriate protection of privacy, confidentiality, security, and intellectual property.

Explain how and when the data will become available. If there is an embargo period for sharing the data, make sure you provide details explaining this delay (e.g. publisher, political, commercial, patent reasons). And if the data is of a sensitive nature, address the means by which access will be restricted. Consider these questions:

-   How will you make the data available?

-   What resources are needed to access or use the data? Examples are software or equipment

-   When will you make the data available?

-   What is the process for gaining access to the data?

-   How long will the original data collector/creator/principal investigator retain the right to use the data before making them available for wider distribution?

-   Are there any embargo periods for political/commercial/patent reasons? If so, give details.

-   Are there ethical and privacy issues? If so, how will these be resolved?

-   Who will hold the intellectual property rights to the data and how might this affect data access?

Data storage and preservation of access
---------------------------------------

### The Data Management Plan should describe the mechanisms and formats for storing data and making them accessible to others, which may include third party facilities and repositories; and other types of information that would be maintained and shared regarding data, e.g. the means by which it was generated, detailed analytical and procedural information required to reproduce experimental results, and other metadata.

Describe your long-term strategy for storing, archiving, and preserving the data you will generate or use. In addition, explain how the responsibilities regarding the management of your data will be delegated. This should include time allocations, project management of technical aspects, training requirements, and contributions of non-project staff - individuals should be named where possible. Remember that those responsible for long-term decisions about your data will likely be the custodians of the repository you choose to store your data. Consider the following:

What is the long-term strategy for maintaining, curating, and archiving the data?

Which archive/repository/database have you identified as a place to deposit data?

What procedures does your intended long-term data storage facility have in place for preservation and backup?

How long will/should data be kept beyond the life of the project?

What data will be preserved for the long-term?

On what basis will data be selected for long-term preservation?

What metadata/documentation will be submitted alongside the data or created on deposit/transformation in order to make the data reusable?

Outline the staff/organizational roles and responsibilities for implementing this data management plan.

How will adherence to this data management plan be checked or demonstrated?

Additional possible data management requirements
------------------------------------------------

### Note that individual solicitations may have additional data management plan requirements. If guidance specific to the program is not available, then the requirements established in the Grant Proposal Guide apply.

Describe here any additional program-specific data management requirements. If none exist you may leave this section blank.

Please note the [**Rigor and Reproducibility**] requirements that involve updates to grant application instructions and review criteria (but not Data Sharing Plans).

  [**Rigor and Reproducibility**]: http://grants.nih.gov/reproducibility/index.htm
